Welcome to Cinema Summary,
ladies and gentlemen,
and CITIES OF LAST THINGS
is a dark movie that explores
one man's life, the mystery of why he does things, and
how he's slowly dying on the inside over
the years
and this is the City of Last Things
the film opens up on a building as
doowop music plays before a man jumps
off the roof ending his life and
establishing the tone of the film quickly
and efficiently: it's in the dystopian
future of Taiwan where drones are
commonplace and used to monitor the
people and the people themselves have
microchips in their wrists, where we find
ourselves following our protagonist the
elderly retired cop Zhang Dong-LIng, a
cynical and jaded man who is out of
place with the world which isn't helped
by the fact that the film is shot on 35
millimeter which adds more grit to an
already gritty world and the first thing
he does after working out is heading to
a dance competition and punching out a
man touching his wife after getting
kicked out he catches a self-driving bus
where he studies the Minister of Social
Resources Zhi-Shi Wei before he's told to
meet up with a contact at the North
Municipal Hospital body takes a detour
stopping at a brothel to get a gun for
a contact there and learns about an
expensive drug that supposedly makes the
working girls 'beautiful' more on that
later as he leaves the North Municipal
Hospital he runs into a corrupt
undercover cop who's trying to sell
the services of underage girls which
in the future is 24, believe it or not
and as he's showing Dong Ling the girls
he spots a foreign girl and takes
particular interest in her and wants to
meet with her. When he meets her he scans
her wrist chip with a POS, a super
futuristic smartphone of sorts and the
wrist chips themselves function as a
form of ID and camera and he's
disappointed to learn that she isn't the
person he recognises even though the
resemblance is uncanny and one thing leads
to another and he has a "session" with her
and while they're engaging in their
session he says a name "Ara"
A name which she responds to but
once the session is over she charges him
for a roleplay experience which clearly
confirms that she wasn't the girl he was
thinking of and she just thought that he
got really into the role-playing and called
her that name then he gets on a bus
remembering his youth in the reflection
of a window as an announcement for a new
drug called Rejuvenator resounds in the
background. He goes to the North
Municipal Hospital where he gets briefed
on the target he's going to kill as well
as given a disguise and some other
things like a severed hand to break into
the targets room. The target in question
is a Minister of Social Resources Zhi Shi
and the way that dong Ling talks to him
implies familiarity and bad blood
it sounds like "Vice-Captain Zhi Shi" isn't
the upstanding man that he presents
himself as – as we will soon find out –
after messing with the minister's wrist
chip, Dong Ling kills him and escapes
getting rid of any evidence in a bin
he goes to meet his daughter and they have
a chat that reveals a lot of things for
one his daughter is dating a foreigner
named Tim and they intend to leave the
city and Dong Ling has had a strained
marriage with his wife Ya Fun for
something that happened 30 years ago
something that he hasn't forgiven her
for and after talking with his daughter
Dong Ling goes to visit his wife's
apartment where the man he punched from
earlier is walking out of who Dong Ling
promptly beats up after the man demands
that Dong Ling divorce his wife speaking
of his wife she's trying to take a new
fangled and pricey beauty enhancing drug
called "Rejuvenator" – that drug that I was
talking about earlier which has
anti-aging properties implied to also
have reverse aging properties he
confronts her about the drug use and
they get into a fight about her
infidelity and he ends up killing her
this sets off her wrist chip and the man
he beat up is found by a security guard
and Dong Ling is reported to the police
who send an aerial drone after the man.
Dong Ling with nothing left to lose or
gain shoots at the drunk before leaping
onto it sending them both to their death
and that's how he dies just like that
man from the beginning of the film we
then go back 30 years into the past
where we see a girl that kind of looks
like that prostitute from earlier who
is caught shoplifting in his
arrested by a young Dong Ling a
hot-blooded cop who works a little too
hard and too much something that
Vice Captain Zhi Shi, the man who
Dong Ling kills in the future, notices
about him after going on duty he stops
by his apartment to visit his wife just
to quickly drop by and stumbles onto his
wife with another man vice captain Zhi
Shi which explains why Dong Ling and
Ya Fun  have such a strained
relationship in the future and why Dong
Ling kills Zhi Shi in the future that
and one other thing and Dong Ling almost
kills him but is disarmed and is taken
down before being forced at gunpoint to
leave the apartment and after doing some
dark contemplation he goes back to this
police station and opens up Zhi Shi's
locker to find it filled with bundles of
cash and in anger he throws it around
getting the attention of the other
officers and his boss who demands to see
Zhi Shi. After trying and failing to go
back home and get answers from his wife
as well as spending time with his infant daughter
Dong Ling chills outside a convenience store
where he spots a familiar foreign
girl who is back to shoplifting again
Dong Ling stops her and buys the things
she steals, leaving her alone only to be
confronted by a black van and a
suspicious man who he runs away from he
doesn't make it far though and is
abducted by the men in the van one of
which is Zhi Shi and is taken to a
stairwell where he's beaten and humiliated
by Zhi Shi for screwing up everything and
not taking any bribes and Zhi Shi almost
executes him before that girl from
earlier interrupts so Zhi Shi and his
men leave him alone as the girl takes
Dong Ling a long bus ride to have a smoke
before taking him to a house party where
they have a joint with their little
adventure ending in them going to her
friend's place where they make love and
where she introduces herself as Ara and
that's how Dong Ling and Ara met and
that's why he saw the resemblance
between the prostitute and Ara but their
afterglow is gonna have to wait as the
home owners come back and Ara sneaks
Dong Ling out only for the homeowners,
presumably Ara's friends
finding her and asking her why she's
stole a bunch of money
something that we never see in the film
and after a few tense words, Dong Li
and Ara drive away on a motorcycle and
chill before going their separate ways
never to see each other again
with Dong Ling going back to the station
where he's arrested and framed by Zhi
Shi and the other cops for taking bribe
money from gangsters as he sits
contemplating about his life Dong Ling
remembers a woman and we go back once
more into the past where we follow Big
Sis Wong a big-name criminal who's
probably connected with the Triads and
the Tongs, a fearsome lady who was
probably paranoid as she grabbed me
hostage while eating dinner after
spotting some suspicious men who
happened to be plainclothes police
officers out to arrest her so she runs
away ducking and turning down alleyways
hiding in the darkness of the night in
the city while at the same time a young
man tries to steal a motorbike and these
two unlikely figures end up literally
running into each other and running away
from the police and after being pushed
into a wall and hit by a car the boy the
woman respectively are arrested Big
Sis Wang is taken to an interrogation
room where we learn that her life is
in danger as she snitched on someone she
shouldn't have and will be taken to jail
she's brought back outside of the room
where she and the young men have a chat
and after a curious conversation that
turns to the topic of the boy's name –
which is Dong Ling – the woman goes
ballistic: yelling and hitting the boy for
trying to steal a bike and going on the
wrong path in life because this random
lady who he had the misfortune of
running into is his real mom who wants
him to turn away from crime even though
she disappeared from his life years ago
and the film ends with them taken into
two separate police cars literally
separated once more and as they look at
each other through the car windows, Big
Sis Wang is shot leaving Dong Ling
motherless once more and distraught as
he can do nothing but watch as she's
taken from him one more time
Cities of Last Things is a tribute to film noir
with its chiaroscuro lighting
the themes of sexuality and the cynical
protagonist, it looks at the darkness
within man and society while framed
against an ever-changing city which
takes on three different forms
while still holding on to that darkness
with the city itself inflicting pain and
loss on Dong Ling again and again
driving him to make decisions he
becomes a cop to honor the wishes of his
murdered mom
and he kills both his wife and Zhi Shi, out
of an anger that has been festering for
decades due to his wife's infidelity and
as the title implies it's a "city of last
things", again and again taking from Dong
Ling until all that he has left is his
life which in a way was already taken
before he ever gave it up because the
film starts in reverse order, he was
always fated to lose himself to
the city: it's a cynical piece of cinema
that is as gritty as the films strips it
was shot on and with that being said
thank you so much for watching ladies
and gentlemen if you enjoyed the video
leave a like down below and subscribe to
get updated on my latest uploads now if
you'll excuse me I need a drink to wash
out the better aftertaste of this movie
until next time
you